Let's talk about configuration and tuning in Spark.
In what cases do you want to tune your Spark application?
Probably all the time but how can we tell?
Once you run the Spark Jump once,
you might encounter several errors or delays.
Sometimes your code might take longer to run than you expected.
In this case, your codes couldn't be
not completely optimize and it should always be optimized.
This can be done through studying your query plan
thoroughly and finding out where your code is taking too long to execute.
You'll see Out Of Memory errors.
Why did this occur?
Well, is it that your dataset was too large to be loaded into driver and executor?
How do we solve this problem?
For code optimization, this should be done through your peer code reviews.
For Out Of Memory errors,
maybe you should reconsider your data size.
If it's the data size,
you'd immediately get an error even before
starting to execute any functions on your data.
However, if it's coming from the some part of your code,
it might be that your code is doing unnecessary shuffles or
too many aggregations and then causing your executors to run out of memory.
If the Out Of Memory error is happening in the driver at the results stage,
then your final output is too large to fit into a driver as well.
This probably relates back to the first bullet point,
is your code optimized?
Let's say it is and you really need these shuffles and aggregations.
The easiest thing will probably be increase the memory size of your driver and
executor so more data shuffles and aggregations can happen in an executor.
You can use properties like Spark.executor.memory and Spark.driver.memory.
You can set the memory for both executor and driver but this
requires you to know exactly how many memory is available in your machine.
You can also set partitions and parallelism.
Spark. sql.shuffle.partitions configures the number
of partitions that are used when shuffling like joints or aggregations.
Spark. default.parallelism gives a default number
of partitions returned by an RDD operations like flatMap or map.
Next, if the job is still taking too long,
we can increase the number of nodes so jobs can run faster.